Multigrain procedure steps:

1- Start by soaking the seeds in 1 cup of water. This step is necessary so that they don’t burn while baking the bread.
2- Next, mix the whole wheat flour and the spelt flour in a large bowl. Add the spices and salt and incorporate them well.
3- In a small bowl, dissolve the yeast in lukewarm water. If it’s too hot then it can kill the yeast, so it’s best to stick to lukewarm water (around 110ºF/43ºC). This usually takes around 5 minutes, add the yeast mixture into the flour bowl and mix until you obtain a sticky dough. (If you want to add some natural sweetener then add that at this point)
4- Then, knead the dough for about 10-15 minutes until it becomes uniform, soft, and elastic. This can also be done in a stand mixer for between 8-10 minutes.
5- Roll the dough into a ball, wet it with some olive oil, and place it in a lightly oiled bowl. Cover the bowl with a damp tea towel and set aside for 1 hour so the dough can rise to around double its size.
6- Remove the dough from the bowl, knocking out some air while you shape the dough into a ‘loaf’ shape that is slightly thinner than the width of your loaf tin. The same goes for individual loaves – simply divide your dough evenly and shape accordingly.
7- Preheat the oven to 480ºF/250ºC
8- Bake time will be between 15-20 minutes. If you want to be double sure that it has baked all the way through then you can use a thermometer and check for a temperature between 190-200ºF/~90ºC.

Baguette procedure steps:

1- Mix the dry ingredients together and add water. 
2- Cover with plastic wrap and let sit overnight (up to 20 hours) on the countertop in a well oiled bowl.
3- Generously flour your hands and your baking sheet.
4- Form dough into baguette shape (about 12 inches long) and let it rise in a warm place for 1-2 hours.
5- Bake until golden brown.

Bagel procedure steps:

1- Mix together water, all flours and salt to make a dough. Leave at room temperature for 2 hours.
2- Divide dough into portions and roll each into a ball. Cover with a damp towel and let rest for 20 minutes. Then (and this is the fun part), take one ball of dough at a time.
 Hold it between both of your hands and gently press your thumbs through the center. Work your hands around the dough to stretch it out into a bagel shape.
3- Rest bagels. Let the bagels rest at room temperature for 15 minutes or transfer them to the refrigerator and let rest overnight. 
4- Boil for 1 minute per side or bake at 450°F / 232°C until golden brown, 12 to 14 minutes.
5- Slice and serve!

Banana bread procedure steps:

1- Preheat oven to 350 F. Mix eggs, banana, 1/4 C. butter, sugar, and sour milk in a mixer on medium speed for 10 seconds or until mixed.
2- In a separate bowl stir dry ingredients
3- On slow mixing speed, add dry ingredients to banana mixture until mixed. Batter will be lumpy. Mix in nuts if you choose to.
4- Pour into greased and floured bread pan.
5- Bake at 350 F for 45 minutes until top is golden brown and toothpick comes out clean. Makes one loaf that can serve 8-10.
6- Serve warm with butter!


Whole Wheat procedure steps:

1- Mix the dough. Mix flour, instant yeast, salt, milk, and water together until the dough begins to pull away from the sides of the bowl. Let it rest about 30 minutes in the bowl.
2- Knead the dough either in the mixing bowl by hand, in a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook, in a food processor, or in a bread machine.
3- Transfer kneaded bread dough to a lightly greased bowl, cover with plastic wrap or a clean kitchen towel, and let the dough rise in a warm place until puffy, about one to two hours.
4- Transfer the dough to a lightly oiled surface and roll into an eight-inch log.
5- Bake the bread. Bake your bread in a 350°F oven for 35 to 40 minutes, until golden brown.

Pita Bread procedure steps:

1- In a large mixing bowl, combine warm water,salt and all flour. Whisk and set aside for 15 minutes until foamy.
2- Turn out onto a clean surface and knead for 5 minutes. It will get less sticky as you knead. If it is too sticky to knead, sprinkle with a little flour and continue kneading. 
4- Grease a clean mixing bowl 1 tsp olive oil. Add dough and turn to coat in oil. Cover the bowl tightly with plastic wrap and place in a warm (100˚F) place 45 minutes, or at room temperature 90 minutes. 
5- Once dough has doubled preheat oven to 500˚F with a baking stone or inverted baking sheet on the bottom rack position and let stone heat up for at least 20 minutes.

Corn bread procedure steps:

1- Preheat the oven to 425ºF and coat the inside of a 9-inch pie plate, cast iron skillet, or 8x8 casserole dish with non-stick spray (or butter for more flavor).
2- In a large bowl, stir together the cornmeal, flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt until evenly combined.
3- In a separate bowl, whisk together the milk, egg, and oil.
4- Pour the bowl of wet ingredients into the bowl of dry ingredients and stir just until everything is moist. Avoid over stirring. It's okay if there are a few lumps.
5- Pour the batter into the prepared dish and bake for about 20 minutes, or until the top and edges are golden brown. Cut into 8 pieces and serve.
